About Dataset
Data and information taken from UCI Machine Learning Repository's Electrical Grid Stability Simulated Data Data Set

Abstract: The local stability analysis of the 4-node star system (electricity producer is in the center) implementing Decentral Smart Grid Control concept.

Source:
-- Creator and donor: Vadim Arzamasov (vadim.arzamasov '@' kit.edu),
Department of computer science,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology;
Karlsruhe, 76131; Germany
-- Date: November, 2018

Data Set Information:
The analysis is performed for different sets of input values using the methodology similar to that described in [Schäfer, Benjamin, et al. 'Taming instabilities in power grid networks by decentralized control.' The European Physical Journal Special Topics 225.3 (2016): 569-582.]. Several input values are kept the same: averaging time: 2 s; coupling strength: 8 s^-2; damping: 0.1 s^-1

Attribute Information:
11 predictive attributes, 1 non-predictive(p1), 2 goal fields:

tau[x]: reaction time of participant (real from the range [0.5,10]s). 
        Tau1 - the value for electricity producer.
        Reaction time in an electrical grid varies from milliseconds 
        to minutes and depends on the event, the equipment involved, 
        and the control system's sophistication. 
        For a simple event, it can be a fraction of a cycle, 
        as with some reactive power calculations. However, 
        for larger disturbances, the time can be significantly 
        longer (seconds to minutes) due to the response of primary 
        and secondary controls, especially when integrating renewable 
        energy sources. 

        Fast response: Some reactive power calculations can have a reaction 
                       time of a quarter of a cycle, which is very fast. 
        Slower response: The response time for grid-level frequency control, 
                       which involves primary and secondary controls, can be in 
                       the order of seconds to minutes. 

p[x]: nominal power consumed(negative)/produced(positive)(real). 
      For consumers from the range [-0.5,-2]s^-2; p1 = abs(p2 + p3 + p4)
      Nominal power in an electrical grid system is the designed or average 
      power consumption, which is different from the maximum or rated power. 
      Nominal power is the typical, average power used, while rated power 
      is the maximum power a device can handle without damage.

g[x]: coefficient (gamma) proportional to price elasticity 
      (real from the range [0.05,1]s^-1). g1 - the value for electricity producer.
      In some mathematical models used to describe the stability of decentralized 
      smart grids, a coefficient denoted by gamma is used as a factor proportional 
      to the price elasticity of demand

stab: the maximal real part of the characteristic equation root 
      (if positive - the system is linearly unstable)(real)
      The maximum real part of the characteristic equation's roots, 
      also known as the dominant eigenvalue, is a critical parameter 
      for determining the stability of an electrical grid. 
stabf: the stability label of the system (categorical: stable/unstable)
Relevant Papers:
      Arzamasov, Vadim, Klemens Bähm, and Patrick Jochem. 'Towards Concise 
      Models of Grid Stability.' Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies 
      for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm), 2018 IEEE International Conference on. IEEE, 2018
(Section V-A)

Citation Request:
      We thank Dr. Benjamin Schäfer for helping us with the initial version of 
      the code used for simulations.